WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, November 9, 2017/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        Telephonic Press Briefing with U.S. Air Force Chief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez, Command Senior Enlisted Leader of the U.S. Africa Command; Force Sergeant Major Elvidge Serumola, Force Sergeant Major of the Botswana Defence Force, and Warrant Officer Class One George Sekelani Bisalomu, Malawi Defence Force Sergeant Major during the Africa Senior Enlisted Leaders Conference (ASELC) hosted by AFRICOM.





EVENT:

Please join us on Thursday, November 9 at 8:30 EDT/13:30 UTC for a telephonic Press Briefing with U.S. Air Force Chief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez, Command Senior Enlisted Leader of the U.S. Africa Command; Force Sergeant Major Elvidge Serumola, Force Sergeant Major of the Botswana Defence Force; and Warrant Officer Class One George Sekelani Bisalomu, Malawi Defence Force Sergeant Major during the Africa Senior Enlisted Leaders Conference (ASELC) hosted by AFRICOM. The ASELC takes place in Grainau, Germany from 7-10 November. The speakers will discuss the conference, building a professional enlisted force, and multinational and regional cooperation and partnership.



AFRICOM is hosting senior enlisted leaders from 21 African partner nations and the U.S. during the event. The primary objective of the ASELC is to bring together African senior enlisted leaders from across the continent and a contingent of U.S. senior enlisted leaders to discuss shared challenges and ways to collaborate.

DETAILS:
Speaker: Chief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez
Warrant Officer Class One George Sekelani Bisalomu
Force Sergeant Major Elvidge Serumola
Date: November 9, 2017
Time: 8:30EDT/13:30 UTC * Please use Time Zone Converter to determine the start time of the event in your time zone.
Language: English. French and Portuguese interpretation will be offered.
Ground rules: On the record
Dial-in Info: To be provided once you RSVP
RSVP: RSVP to afmediahub@state.gov. Please indicate if you will dial in (specify English/French/Portuguese line), or request that we dial out to you (provide the phone number and language to be used).
Twitter: We will use #ASELC17Press as the hashtag for the call. Follow us on @AfricaMediaHub.

LOGISTICS:


	Callers should dial-in to the conference call 10-15 minutes early.
	When an individual journalist dials-in, the operator will collect the caller’s name, press affiliation, and location. When an embassy dials in, the operator will ask the embassy’s name and location.
	The moderator will facilitate the Q and A among the connected callers. Journalists on the conference call will be instructed to press the “*” and “1” buttons on their phones in order to enter the question queue. NOTE: You can press “*1” at any time during the call to join the question queue, even before the moderator begins the Q and A portion. We ask that journalists limit themselves to one question and indicate to which speaker the question is directed. Journalists can also submit questions in English to afmediahub@state.gov prior to or during the call.




BIO:
Chief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez
Force Sergeant Major Elvidge Serumola
Warrant Officer Class One George Sekelani Bisalomu