PARIS, France, November 9, 2017/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        Global cooperation to fight tax evasion and avoidance has grown rapidly over the past few years. Tax transparency and exchange of Information between tax authorities about financial assets and activities of their taxpayers abroad has proved to be a valuable tool in this fight. New efforts to ensure a worldwide level playing field and global implementation of transparency standards will top the agenda during the 10th meeting of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, in Yaoundé, Cameroon on 15-17 November 2017.





The Global Forum is the world’s largest network for international cooperation in the field of taxation and financial information exchange, bringing together 146 countries and jurisdictions plus the European Union. The Forum’s 10th meeting will bring together more than 200 delegates for discussions on the next steps to accelerate international cooperation against tax evasion with a focus on developing countries, in particular those in Africa.



Global Forum members will discuss key developments in the areas of exchange of information on request as well as automatic exchange of information. They will also discuss the Global Forum’s future work plans to strengthen their cooperation and how to maximise the benefits of improved tax transparency.



Six second round peer review reports will also be published during the meeting for Curaçao, Denmark, India, Isle of Man, Italy and Jersey.



Journalists are invited to participate in the following events:



Opening and Welcome Address




	When: Wednesday, 15 November 2017 from 10:15 to 10:45 am (local time)
	Who: H.E. Mr. Alamine Ousmane Mey, Minister of Finance of Cameroon and Ms. Maria-José Garde, Chair of the Global Forum
	Where: Hilton Yaoundé, Boulevard du 20 mai, Yaounde 11852, Cameroun




Global Forum Closing Press Conference




	When: Friday, 17 November 2017 from 13:15 to 14:00 pm (local time)
	Who: H.E. Mr. Alamine Ousmane Mey, Minister of Finance of Cameroon, Maria-José Garde, Chair of the Global Forum and Monica Bhatia, Head of the Global Forum Secretariat
	Where: Hilton Yaoundé, Boulevard du 20 mai, Yaounde 11852, Cameroun