JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, March 17, 2017/APO/ -- 
                                                
                        Garmin (www.Garmin.co.za) in collaboration with MTN Nigeria partner to introduce a range of world class health and fitness devices to help boost fitness standards while maintaining a healthy lifestyle.





There is an increased focus around the world to be healthy and more active, and through innovation and technology Garmin created a range of wellness devices that enrich the lives of our customers through wearable location and communications technology.

The range of watches track, monitor and record daily health activities to motivate you towards a healthier lifestyle. Some are also smart devices that pair via Bluetooth® with your smartphone to receive current weather conditions, forecasts, voice call/text message notifications, emails and more – right on your Garmin fitness device.
                            Each new customer will be delighted to know that with every Garmin device purchased they will receive 300MB monthly for 3 months from MTN
                        

“Our Garmin watches support various mobile devices operating on the Android, iOS or Microsoft platforms giving all Nigerian customers the chance to get fit and healthy while staying connected” said the Business Development Manager for Garmin Sub-Saharan Africa, Mike Clarke.

Through Garmin’s mobile app, Garmin Connect Mobile, members are able to review, analyse and share their activities right from their smart phone device. Now you can focus on your fitness and healthy living goals as all the data you rely on is easy to retrieve and view on the app.

“Building off of our partnership and recent launch with MTN Ghana, we are excited to extend our footprint in Africa and partner with the leading telecommunications provider to bring these innovative solutions into Nigeria where we have seen an increasing interest and adoption of healthy lifestyles by many people” said Jenna Chisnall, Marcomms Manager of Sub-Saharan Africa.

Products include the vivoFit 3, your first step to wellness tracking your daily activity and sleep patterns, vivoSmart HR receives smart notifications with Wrist-based Heart Rate plus GPS. vivoActive HR a lightweight smartwatch with built-in Garmin sports apps that you can wear every day. Forerunner 35 running watch with inbuilt activity tracker and Fenix 3 sapphire HR the ultimate outdoor adventure watch with advanced training metrics. Garmin Index smart scale that measures weight, body mass index (BMI), body fat/water percentage, bone and muscle mass. All of these devices connect to your phone allowing you to wirelessly sync data to Garmin Connect Mobile app.

In partnership with MTN, these wearable tech watches will be made available through selected MTN Service Centres in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja. “Each new customer will be delighted to know that with every Garmin device purchased they will receive 300MB monthly for 3 months from MTN to get them on their way to a healthier lifestyle” says MTN CMO, Rahul De.



As the authorised Distributor, Multitek Group is where customers can have peace of mind knowing that they have the service and support that the Garmin brand is famous for around the world. Multitek Trained sales consultants will be on hand inside select MTN stores to offer the sales support and motivation for Nigerians to achieve a healthier lifestyle and #BeatYesterday the Garmin way with MTN.