JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, March 23, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        South Africa is committed to work with Nigeria for a better Africa in a better world. This was said by the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria Mr Lulu Louis Mnguni. Mnguni was speaking at a welcoming session for the South African business delegation which arrived in Nigeria on Wednesday, 22 March 2017. 





The delegation is in Nigeria to attend the trade and investment mission to that country. The mission started on Monday, 20 March 2017 in Ghana and will kick-off its second leg in Lagos, Nigeria today. The mission is organised by the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti).



According to Mnguni, the two countries do not only focus on servicing the interests of their own citizens, but also to consolidate the African Development Agenda.


                            According to Mnguni, the two countries do not only focus on servicing the interests of their own citizens, but also to consolidate the African Development Agenda
                        

He added that both South Africa and Nigeria were the leading forces in Africa and as they move towards the regeneration of the African continent they both could play an important role as the two major countries with leading economies.



Mnguni told the delegates that South Africa with its vast wealth of expertise had an advantage of assisting other African countries to diversify their economies.



“To this end our Department of Mineral Resources has been hard at work, working with Nigeria,” he said.



The mission forms part of the dti’s objective to identify and create export markets for South African value-added products, and services. It will also serve to promote South African products, and service offerings, whilst creating business partnerships between business communities of the respective countries.



Sectors targeted for the mission are agro-processing, electro-technical, infrastructure, mining, services and capital equipment. The programme for the mission will include trade and investment seminars, site visits and business-to-business meetings.