NAIROBI, Kenya, March 17, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        The Government of Japan has been providing funds to local non-profit organizations through the Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects (GGP) since 1989.



Today, the official ground breaking ceremony of “The Project for Rehabilitation of Street-children through Organic Farming”, a GGP project, was held at Magogoni Town, Ngoliba Location, Kiambu County. The Grant Contract for this project was signed on 8th of February 2017 in the amount of 74,605 US Dollars, (approximately 7.5 million Ksh). The grant is for the construction of a rehabilitation home for drug-addicted street children.
                            The center is supported by over 1,200 individual sponsors and donors from Japan and around the world, and routinely receives medical doctors, teachers, and other volunteers
                        

Prior to the project, Moyo Children Center (MCC) was unable to provide drug-addicted children with the individualized attention that they need for successful rehabilitation. Moyo Children Center will construct a new facility near Mogogoni Town that will house five children and Moyo staff (counselors, social workers, and caretaker). While at the rehabilitation home, the children will work with local social workers, Ms. Matsushita, and the Department of Children’s Services on their recovery, while learning employable farming skills with the assistance of Sub-County Extension officers. 

Moyo Children Center has been working with street children in Thika County since 1999. Originally run out of private home of the founder and current Director, Ms. Terumi Matsushita, the center expanded to its current home in 2010. The center is supported by over 1,200 individual sponsors and donors from Japan and around the world, and routinely receives medical doctors, teachers, and other volunteers from Japan.

During the ceremony, Ms. Terumi Matsushita and representatives of Moyo Children Center thanked the Government of Japan for its support. They shared the importance of showing love and affection to former street children and thanked the community of Magogoni for showing up in large numbers to support the children today.



While giving his remarks, H.E. Toshitsugu Uesawa, Ambassador of Japan to the Republic of Kenya congratulated Moyo for receiving the grant. The Ambassador expressed his thanks to Ms. Matsushita for her tireless work of bringing together the peoples of Japan and Kenya to provide a home for the street-boys of Kiambu County. In closing, the Ambassador gave his assurance of the Embassy’s support during the implementation of this project, which is scheduled to be completed by October, 2017, and requested the community members to take personal responsibility for the health and success of the street-boys of Kiambu.