AMMAN, Jordan, March 20, 2017/APO/ -- 
                                                
                        The 3rd Jordan International Energy Summit (JIES) (www.JIES-Summit.com) is being held under the patronage of His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein and the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development on the 2 – 3 April 2017 at the Grand Hyatt Hotel & Conference Centre in Amman, Jordan.



There are billions of dollars of projects under discussion at the Summit; in Jordan as well as affecting the whole region. The programme is hosted by the Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources in Jordan; with official international delegations to the Summit led by:


	H.E. Dr Ibrahim Saif, Minister of Energy & Mineral Resources, Jordan;
	H.E. Moulay Hafid Elalamy, Minister of Energy, Mines, Water & Environment, Morocco;
	H.E. Eng. Tarek El Molla, Minister of Petroleum & Mineral Resources, Egypt;
	H.E. Dr. Dr. András Aradszki, Minister of State for Energy Affairs of the Ministry of National Development, Hungary;
	H.E. Qasim Al-Fahadawi, Minister of Electricity, Iraq;
	H.E. Hela Cheikhrouhou, Minister of Energy, Mining and Renewables, Tunisia;
	H.E. Abdullah Al-Akwa', Minister of Electricity & Energy, Yemen;
	H.E. Dr. Mohamed Zayed Awad, Minister of Petroleum & Gas, Sudan;
	H.E. Eng. Mohamed Shaker, Minister of Electricity & Renewable Energy, Egypt;
	Mr. Khalid Jolo, CEO Nebras on behalf of the Qatar Government;
	Dr. Panos Kelamis, CEO, Cyprus Hydrocarbons Company on behalf of the Cyprus Government.






The JIES Summit is centered around a world-class programme with speakers from Governments, global energy companies and experts in their fields and is combined with an international exhibition to allow companies to showcase their projects and expertise whilst giving Jordan access to the latest technologies and products.
                            There are billions of dollars of projects under discussion at the Summit; in Jordan as well as affecting the whole region
                        



In addition to providing purposeful meeting opportunities with the international delegations and major commercial companies; JIES provides an invaluable insight and the major themes under discussion include:


	An Overview of Jordan’s Energy Mix;
	Diversification of the Middle East’s Energy and Enhancing Regional Cooperation;
	Opportunities for Public Private Sector Partnerships through the Region;
	Global Sustainable Energy Solutions practical for the Middle East;
	Examination of Nuclear Energy as a Solution;
	Focus on Renewable Energy Projects through the Middle East; Solar, Wind, Hydro and Geothermal;
	Infrastructure Requirements across the Region;
	Key Oil & Gas Opportunities and Challenges Affecting the Region’s Energy Mix.






The commercial importance of the Summit is underlined by the strength of support from major Energy companies in the region. Amongst more than 140 companies participating, major event sponsors include: Jordan Petroleum Refinery Company, AES, Vestas, Housing Bank, Arab Potash, Baynouna, Masdar, Mass Energy Group, Capital Investments, Karak International Oil Co., Rosatom, FAJR and Petrojet.



​With conference rooms catering for 700 senior executives and an exhibition hall with capacity for 80 companies, the 3rd Jordan International Energy Summit is being held at the Grand Hyatt, Amman providing easy access and first-class facilities. With so many vital projects under discussion the organisers expect to surpass previous attendance from 45 countries to this leading energy event for the industry in the region.



JIES is an initiative of the Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources who have appointed global energy experts; Global Event Partners (GEP) (www.GEP-Events.com) to organize the event. GEP is a major UK-based event management company closely affiliated to the dmg::events network and responsible for some of the world’s largest energy exhibitions and conferences. In Jordan, Global Event Partners works closely with the leading multidiscipline communications agency in Jordan; iJordan and in partnership with energy advisors Al Fardouss International (AFIL).