HARARE, Zimbabwe, September 12, 2017/APO/ -- 
                                                
                        Insurance technology specialist SSP (www.SSP-worldwide.com) has signed a new deal with the Masawara Group of insurance companies. The deal has seen SSP Pure Insurance deployed across Botswana Insurance Company Limited, Lion Assurance Company Limited and Zimnat Lion Insurance Company Limited in multiple African territories, all of which are now live.





SSP Pure Insurance is a flexible, end-to-end core insurance system, which provides Masawara Insurance Group with the full-cycle policy administration, finance, claims, reinsurance and MI/BI reporting capabilities it needs to drive future growth.


                            SSP has over 30 years' knowledge and experience of the African general insurance market, and has delivered the same SSP Pure Insurance package to more than 50 short-term insurers
                        

The enterprise solution will also provide Masawara Insurance Group with a web-based employee portal and a broker portal, which will make it easier for brokers to do business with the three insurers through online e-trading.



Adrian Coupland, Customer and Marketing Managing Director at SSP, said SSP was delighted it had extended its partnership with Masawara Insurance Group. “With our existing customers, Botswana Insurance Company Limited and Lion Assurance Company Limited, and their sister company Zimnat Lion Insurance Company Limited, all live on our market-leading platform, they can benefit from a consolidated solution with best practice configuration and proactive support from the experienced team in our South African office,” says Coupland.



Mustafa Sachak, Chief Executive Officer at Masawara Insurance Group comments, “SSP Pure Insurance gives us a future-proof enterprise solution with the capability and flexibility for us to be self-sufficient, as well as centralised reporting and intelligence for the data across all three insurers. SSP has over 30 years' knowledge and experience of the African general insurance market, and has delivered the same SSP Pure Insurance package to more than 50 short-term insurers. This gives us the confidence that we have adopted a proven solution that has benefitted from $7.2m of R&D investment over the last three years.”



Stanley Mazorodze, Managing Director at Zimnat Lion Insurance Company Limited concludes, “We are committed to making a real difference to the lives of Zimbabweans through providing superior products and customer service. By adopting SSP Pure Insurance, we have not only implemented a proven functionality-rich platform designed specifically for the short-term insurance market, but can also benefit from SSP’s constant investment in its technology, service and people. As a result, we have the capabilities and support necessary to make our clients’ lives better today and in the future as the market changes.”