GENEVA, Switzerland, April 6, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        UNHCR, the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the United Nations jointly launched, early this week, the Egypt chapter of the Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (3RP), which is the programme strategy to respond to refugee protection and humanitarian needs, and strengthen the resilience of the host community, and state institutions to cope with the impact of the Syria. 





The Egypt appeal for US $348 million aims to address the needs of 1.2 million members of the host community in addition to 113,000 targeted Syrian refugees registered with UNHCR and living in different governorates in Egypt. “Egyptian government, society and people are very hospitable towards refugees, Syrians and others. This generosity should be supported by concrete solidarity from the international community” said Mr. Karim Atassi, UNHCR Representative in Egypt. “The humanitarian care and assistance activities developed in this plan will alleviate the suffering of the most vulnerable Syrian refugees and will help creating conditions for them to have a dignified life” he added. As the Syrian crisis entered its seventh year with no end of the conflict in sight, the conference held in Brussels “Supporting the Future of Syria and the Region” aims to raise sufficient funding to provide vital and much needed assistance to the 5 million Syrian refugees scattered around the globe and particularly in Syria’s neighbouring countries. 


                            The European Union is hosting the conference, co-chaired by the United Nations and the governments of Germany, Kuwait, Norway, Qatar and the United Kingdom
                        

The European Union is hosting the conference, co-chaired by the United Nations and the governments of Germany, Kuwait, Norway, Qatar and the United Kingdom. 



The conference will bring together over 70 countries, international organisations and civil society organisations in order to reconfirm existing pledges and identify additional support to Syrians inside Syria and in neighbouring countries. 



In addition to the 3RP for the Syrian population, UNHCR has prepared a country response plan for refugees and asylum-seekers from Sub-Saharan Africa, Iraq and Yemen residing in Egypt, to respond to the protection needs, including health, education, as well as access to basic services and livelihoods. 



As of the end of February 2017, UNHCR in Egypt has registered a total of 202,209 refugees and asylum-seekers including 120,154 Syrians, 34,671 Sudanese, 12,829 Ethiopians, 7,583 Iraqis and 2,959 Yemenis among others.