BEIJING, China, January 13, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        On January 11, 2017, Foreign Minister Wang Yi held talks in Abuja with Foreign Minister Geoffrey Onyeama of Nigeria.



Wang Yi expressed that as the largest developing country in the world and Africa respectively, China and Nigeria are each other's important strategic partner. In recent years, bilateral exchanges in various areas have been constantly deepening and bilateral cooperation has been at the forefront of China-Africa cooperation, yet there is still enormous space left to be explored compared with the market potential of both countries.
                            The Nigerian side is willing to further enhance exchanges and cooperation in various areas with China
                        

Wang Yi put forward five proposals on implementing the consensus reached between the two heads of state as well as the outcomes from the Johannesburg Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in the next stage and elevating bilateral relations to a new stage. First, adhere to the one-China policy to consolidate the political foundation of bilateral relations; second, stick to the principle of mutual benefit and win-win results to build an upgraded version of China-Nigeria practical cooperation; third, support Nigeria to improve its capacity in maintaining security and stability by focusing on cooperation in peace and security; fourth, uphold the bridging role of people-to-people and cultural cooperation to expand the non-governmental and social foundation of China-Nigeria friendship; fifth, safeguard the common interests of developing countries by insisting on the platform of international cooperation.

Geoffrey Onyeama noted that Foreign Minister of China always chooses Africa as the destination of his first visit every year, which demonstrates the great importance attached by China to Africa and China-Africa solidarity and friendship. Last year, President Muhammadu Buhari paid a successful visit to China, during which he reached a spate of important consensus with President Xi Jinping. The Nigerian side is willing to take effective measures with China to well carry out these consensus. Currently, the country is devoted to accelerating industrialization process, improving people's welfare and gradually shaking off the dependence on oil for diversified economic development. It is hoped that during this process, China can offer strong support. Nigeria agrees with China's five proposals on bilateral cooperation in the next stage, holding that both sides enjoy tremendous potential in cooperation in railway, highway, hydropower development, military security and other areas. The Nigerian side is willing to further enhance exchanges and cooperation in various areas with China and hopes that more Chinese enterprises can participate in Nigeria's national construction.

Wang Yi stated that a few days ago, the Nigerian side asked Taiwanese offices in Nigeria to remove their "false names" and "false plates", move out of the capital city as well as reduce power and personnel and reiterated its adherence to the one-China policy, which China highly appreciates. Geoffrey Onyeama said that relevant measures of Nigeria aim at fulfilling the promises made by President Muhammadu Buhari during his visit to China and dealing with issues left by history that interfere with bilateral political mutual trust. It is hoped that both sides can take it as an opportunity to open up new prospects of bilateral cooperation.

The two Foreign Ministers also exchanged views on international and regional issues of common concern and agreed to further step up coordination and collaboration in international affairs between both countries.

After the talks, the two Foreign Ministers signed a joint statement on adhering to the one-China policy on behalf of respective government and jointly met the press.