OTTAWA, Canada, January 5, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        Celina Caesar-Chavannes, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, will attend the inauguration ceremony of Nana Akufo-Addo, President-Elect of Ghana, on January 7, 2017.


                            Canada congratulates Nana Akufo-Addo on his election to the presidency of Ghana and all Ghanaians for holding transparent and democratic elections on December 7, 2016
                        

During her visit, Parliamentary Secretary Caesar-Chavannes will meet with President-Elect Akufo-Addo to reinforce Canada’s bilateral relationship with Ghana, which is anchored in our belief in democratic systems and development results, our work together in the United Nations, the Commonwealth and La Francophonie, and our evolving trade relations.

The Parliamentary Secretary will visit a Toronto SickKids Hospital partnership project at the Ghana College of Nurses and Midwives in Accra to see how Canada is supporting improved health care service delivery in Ghana. Also in Accra, she will visit the Kofi Annan International Peacekeeping Training Centre, and in Winneba, she will visit a Canada Fund for Local Initiatives project.

Quotes

“Canada congratulates Nana Akufo-Addo on his election to the presidency of Ghana and all Ghanaians for holding transparent and democratic elections on December 7, 2016. We look forward to working with the newly elected president as we continue to advance our shared democratic values and commitment to multilateralism and inclusive growth.” - Celina Caesar-Chavannes, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister

Quick facts


	This year, 2017, will mark the 60th anniversary of bilateral relations and over 100 years of people-to-people ties between Canada and Ghana.
	Ghana’s respect for democratic principles and its successful transition of government are important examples to the region and to the continent.
	Ghana was Canada’s fourth-largest export market in sub-Saharan Africa in 2015, with two-way trade growing more than 260 percent since 2000, to reach $265.3 million. Ghana’s stable political environment has encouraged trade and investment.