ACCRA, Ghana, January 5, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        On behalf of Her Majesty’s government, the UK Prime Minister’s Trade Envoy to Ghana Adam Afriyie will attend the Inauguration of the Republic of Ghana’s President - elect Nana Akufo-Addo on January 7th 2017. His visit will strengthen and promote the existing trade relations between the two countries – putting partnership at the centre of bilateral relations. Alongside meeting key members of the incoming administration, he will see members of the newly founded UK-Ghana Chamber of Commerce (UKGCC), leading businesses in Ghana, and infrastructure experts to discuss how the UK can support Ghana to achieve its infrastructure development goals. Ghana is the UK’s fourth largest export market in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2015 bilateral trade of goods and services totalled £1.082billion.
                            Ghana is the UK’s fourth largest export market in Sub-Saharan Africa
                        



To help accelerate economic growth, Ghana aims to attract more foreign investment. The UK is supporting this: through our UK in Ghana agenda, the UK’s overarching aim is to support economic and business reform to drive growth in Ghana. British businesses see Ghana as a valuable investment base in West Africa and many flagship UK companies are flourishing in Ghana, operating across multiple sectors. During his five day visit (5th-9th January) Mr Afriyie will chair discussions focused on a deeper partnership centres on “UK expertise and Ghanaian capability”. The visit will help foster an even stronger relationship with the business community in Ghana. The UK is a global centre of excellence in many areas including: architecture: digital technologies and professional services such as cyber security; fintech and general consultancy services; academia; healthcare; renewable energy; and Oil and Gas and mining supply chain. Ghanaian domestic businesses who partner with UK businesses stand to benefit from skills and technology transfer, economies of scale and access to innovative technologies. As the new Ghanaian Government takes office, the UK aims to continue to be a crucial partner in advancing economic development in Ghana. Healthy businesses bring vital investment, create jobs and contribute to Ghana’s tax base, which can better enable the government to deliver essential public services.