ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, January 27, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        The Peace and Security Council of the African Union (AU), at its 650th meeting held on 17 January 2017, was briefed by the Chairperson of the Peace and Security Council on the Conclusions of the Fourth High-Level Seminar on Peace and Security in Africa, held at the ministerial level, in Oran, Algeria, from 17 to 19 December 2016, with a view to Assisting Incoming African Members on the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) in Preparing to Address Peace and Security Issues on the Continent and adopted the following decision:







Council,

1.    Takes note of the briefing provided by the Chairperson of the Peace and Security Council on the Report of the Fourth High Level Seminar on Peace and Security in Africa;

2.    Recalls its previous pronouncements on this High-Level Seminar, including communiqués PSC/PR/COMM.(CDXVIII) adopted at its 418th meeting held on 11 February 2014, communiqué PSC/PR/COMM.(CDLXXVIII) adopted at its 478th meeting held on 19 December 2014,  as well as Assembly decision Assembly/AU/Dec.598(XXVI) of the Twenty-Sixth Ordinary Session, held from 30 to 31 January 2016;

3.    Underlines the importance of coordination between the African Members on the UNSC (A3) for effective articulation and promotion of Africa’s views within the UNSC on peace and security issues of interest and concern to the continent and its people;

4.    Commends the Government of Algeria for launching this initiative and for hosting the Fourth Oran High Level Seminar in collaboration with the African Union Commission and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR);

5.     Welcomes  the following Conclusions as contained in paragraph 13 (i-vi) of the Report of the Seminar which notes the progress made in strengthening collaboration between the PSC and the A3 as recommended in previous Conclusions of the Seminar:
i.    In all sessions of the PSC where a country situation is under discussion or any matter related to peace and security, the A3 based in Addis Ababa have always been invited to participate and to contribute to the discussion;
ii.    During the PSC induction workshop for the newly elected PSC Members, which took place in March 2016, the A3 based in Addis Ababa took part;
iii.    PSC decisions laying the basis of the common African positions have always been transmitted to the A3 in New York ahead of UN Security Council sessions, in order to enable the A3 to present and defend them within the UN Security Council;
iv.    The A3 have already started to report to the PSC on their activities in the UN Security Council. It should be noted with appreciation that Egypt, during the time that it was coordinating the A3 in New York, was the first member of the A3 to provide a briefing to the PSC on the A3 activities in the UN Security Council;
v.    PSC has started mainstreaming A3 activities in its Report on its Activities and the State of Peace and Security in Africa;
vi.    Growing momentum with the A3 involved in drafting resolutions on peace and security issues that are of concern to Africa. The A3 are involved in chairing different groups in the UN, which boost the participation of Africa, particularly on issues concerning it.

6.    Endorses the following steps to further strengthen the coordination contained in paragraph 14 (i, ii, iii and iv) of the Report of the Seminar:
i.    Need to further strengthen common purpose among the A3 in channeling PSC-provided positions on peace and security issues in Africa. This will involve, among others, continuous and timeous communication of the outcomes of the PSC meetings on issues concerning Africa to the A3, ahead of the UN Security Council sessions;
ii.    Need to promote close cooperation, between the A3 and the P5, as well as between the A3 and 10 elected (E10) members of the UN Security Council;
iii.    Need for the A3, on the basis of the decisions of the AU Assembly and those of the PSC, to more effectively promote and defend African common positions on peace and security issues of concern to Africa, within the UN Security Council decision-making process;
iv.    Need to ensure that the A3 is accountable to the AU in discharging their responsibilities in the UN Security Council. In this regard, the need for the A3 coordinators to continue to regularly brief the PSC on the activities of the A3 in the UNSC was emphasized.

7.    Requests the Commission to take all necessary steps to facilitate the implementation of the outcomes of the Fourth High-Level Seminar on Peace and Security in Africa, as elaborated in paragraph 6 of this
Communiqué;

8.    Decides to remain seized of the matter.