JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, December 22, 2017/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        The Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies says the implementation of the technologically-advanced National Central Electronic Monitoring System (NCEMS) by the National Gambling Board (NGB) will go a long way in helping the Limited Pay-out Machine (LPM) industry generate more revenue and create more job opportunities. The NCEMS went live nationwide on 18 December 2017.





Limited pay-out machines are gambling machines that have a limited pay-out of R500. The machines provide gambling as a social or recreational activity in communities, while punters seeking larger winnings are catered for by casinos, betting on horseracing or sporting events, and bingo.



“The new system is aptly named Evolution, as it brings completely new technology to the LPM industry. With the advanced technology upon which the Evolution system is based, the industry will find itself being supported far more efficiently, while punters will also benefit from newer, more user-friendly ways of gambling on LPMs that would enable the industry to grow,” says Minister Davies.



He adds that the LPM industry contributes significantly to the economy of the country, and also provides jobs for thousands of people.
                            With the advanced technology upon which the Evolution system is based, the industry will find itself being supported far more efficiently
                        



“So this advancement in technology will ultimately lead not only to greater revenue being generated by the industry to boost the South African economy, but will also see the creation of more job opportunities, as the industry prepares for further growth,” adds Minister Davies



In terms of the National Gambling Act of 2004, the NGB is required to supply, install, commission, operate, manage and maintain a National Central Electronic Monitoring System. This system enables the NGB to detect and monitor significant events associated with any Limited Pay-out Machine that is made for play in South Africa, and analysing and reporting data according to the requirements of the standards determined in respect of the NCEMS.



The Act further allows the NGB to outsource the supply, installation, commissioning and operation of the NCEMS and related specified and ancillary services required for its functioning. For the past 14 years, this system was provided by Zonke Monitoring Systems (Pty) Ltd. In a technology-driven LPM industry, the system being was largely outdated, and thus limited in its value to both operators and punters.



Minister Davies has also congratulated Route Monitoring (Pty) Ltd on their appointment as the new NCEMS service provider.



“This is a defining moment in the history of the LPM industry, as the baton has been handed over to them to run with for the next eight years. We look forward to the beginning of a new era in the LPM industry under Route Monitoring, which will allow all of the stakeholders to work in collaboration towards an effective regulation and efficient implementation of NCEMS,” says Minister Davies.