CAIRO, Egypt, February 17, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        Hundreds of Egyptian entrepreneurs gathered yesterday in Sohag to participate in a summit hosted by Markade LLC, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Through workshops, panel discussions, and success stories from the local community, the event raised awareness on the need for more entrepreneurship in Upper Egypt. It also discussed ways to build the capacity of Sohag’s youth to become successful entrepreneurs.




                            In cooperation with the Ministry of Trade and Industry, USAID supports the growth and expansion of startups and micro, small, and medium enterprises
                        

This summit in Sohag was the second in a series of three joint U.S.-Egypt public events in Upper Egypt aimed towards linking potential future entrepreneurs with successful investors and experienced mentors. Along with events in Assiut and Aswan, yesterday’s summit in Sohag brought together Upper Egypt youth to learn about business development services, market information, and linkage opportunities available in Egypt’s entrepreneur network. 



All of the above initiatives are part of USAID’s project to strengthen entrepreneurship and enterprise development (SEED) in Egypt. In cooperation with the Ministry of Trade and Industry, USAID supports the growth and expansion of startups and micro, small, and medium enterprises. 



Since 1978, the U.S. Government has invested nearly $30 billion in the people of Egypt for projects that reflect the shared goals and values of the people of America and the people of Egypt. This longstanding partnership reduced infant mortality and eliminated polio, modernized the power grid and expanded telecommunications networks, launched many entrepreneurs whose businesses created good jobs and added value to the Egyptian economy, and prepared students with marketable skills for the 21st century economy.