VICTORIA, Seychelles, February 3, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        President Danny Faure received Hon. Seetana Lutchmeenaraidoo, GCSK, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade and Special Envoy of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius yesterday at State House. Hon. Lutchmeenaraidoo presented Mr. Faure with a letter from Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth and discussed various areas of cooperation where Seychelles and Mauritius can bring their relations to new heights. 
 

President Faure reaffirmed Seychelles’ commitments in consolidating the already existing relations and how the two countries shared common visions in the international arena, such as, the African Union. 

“Mauritius is a leading example in sound economic policies which were initiated many years ago and also from the leadership of former Prime Minister. I think we will be able to give a new impetus in terms of other areas of cooperation such as investment and economic policies that Africa can pursue,” said President Faure.

They focused on the strengthening relations in the fields of trade and commerce, drugs preventions and rehabilitation and health.

Speaking to the local media after the meeting, Hon. Lutchmeenaraidoo said that he is here to learn from the people of Seychelles and to share his expertise during these two days official visit. He explained that Mauritius and Seychelles can work and accomplish many things together for the benefit of each country, as they shared the same vision. 

“There are various areas where we can complement each other and this why I was eager to come here. So, there will be a lot meetings tomorrow and we will also discussing our roles in the Indian Ocean Commission and ways to use it more in communicating decisions to other members in the region,” said  Hon. Lutchmeenaraidoo.

Also present at the meeting was Ambassador Michelle Murray, Diplomatic Advisor to the President, Ambassador Callixte D’offay and Minister Counsellor and Head of bilateral III (African and Indian Ocean) Directorate, Mrs. Marie Hélène Chavrimootoo.