ABUJA, Nigeria, May 9, 2017/APO/ --
                                                
                        United Nations Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan, Aristide Nononsi, will carry out his fourth mission to the country from 11 to 21 May to continue his engagement with the Sudanese authorities and discuss the implementation of his recommendations.
 

“I will follow up with the Government of the Sudan on issues of concern that I identified during my mission in February 2017, and  discuss the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in my report of September 2016 to the Human Rights Council,” Mr. Nononsi said.

During his eleven-day mission, the expert will also follow up on the implementation of the recommendations made by other human rights mechanisms, including those from the Universal Periodic Review*.

The Independent Expert will meet with relevant stakeholders, including the Sudanese authorities, civil society actors, academia, community leaders, members of the diplomatic corps, and UN entities in order to ensure that all relevant information is reflected in his next report to the UN Human Rights Council.

Mr. Nononsi, who visits Sudan at the invitation of the Government, will hold meetings in Khartoum and Blue Nile.

On Sunday 21 May at 2:00 pm, the expert will hold a press conference at the United Nations Development Programme Office (UNDP) in Khartoum, to share with the media his preliminary observations on the visit. Access to the press conference is strictly limited to journalists.

The Independent Expert on Sudan will present his findings and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council in September 2017.

(*) The Universal Periodic Review (UPR) is a unique process which involves a review of the human rights records of all UN Member States by other States, in order to improve the human rights situation in all countries and address human rights violations wherever they occur. While ensuring equal treatment for every country when their human rights situations are assessed, the UPR provides the opportunity for each State to declare what actions they have taken to improve the human rights situations in their countries and to fulfil their human rights obligations. The UPR process reminds States of their responsibility to fully respect and implement all human rights and fundamental freedoms.