NAIROBI, Kenya, October 26, 2017/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        As long-standing partners, our governments have watched the unfolding developments around Kenya’s fresh presidential election with profound sadness. We had hoped and have repeatedly called for Kenyans to come together to hold a better election in line with the historic order of the Supreme Court on September 1. We are deeply disappointed by the continuing efforts of both parties to interfere with and undermine the independent operation of the electoral commission, the judiciary, and other essential institutions. We condemn the attack on the bodyguard of the Deputy Chief Justice.



We regret that the Supreme Court was unable to hear yesterday’s case that raised important questions regarding the election. We would have preferred that the case be heard before the election. We strongly deplore any attempts to obstruct the judicial process.

The IEBC has, however, announced the election will take place today. We urge all Kenyans to remain calm, reject violence, and uphold the principles of this country’s remarkable Constitution. Following this election, there must be immediate, sustained, open, and transparent dialogue involving all Kenyans to resolve the deep divisions that the electoral process has exacerbated. Kenya is at risk of losing much of what it has gained since 2008 unless it comes together at this crucial moment to preserve its democracy and fundamental freedoms.

This statement has been signed by the following Heads of Mission in Kenya:

Nic Hailey (High Commissioner for the United Kingdom), Robert F. Codec (Ambassador of the United States), Stefano A. Dejak (Ambassador of the European Union), Ralf Heckler (Ambassador of Switzerland), Tarja Fernández (Ambassador of Finland), Anna Jardfelt (Ambassador of Sweden), Victor Conrad Rønneberg (Ambassador of Norway), Jutta Frasch (Ambassador of Germany), Frans Majken (Ambassador of the Netherlands), Sara Hradecky (High Commissioner for Canada), Mette Knudsen (Ambassador of Denmark), Mauro Massoni (Ambassador of Italy), Antoine Sivan (Ambassador of France), Quentin Devlin (Deputy High Commissioner a.i., Australia), Nicolas Nihon (Ambassador of Belgium).